 Glossary of Selected Financial Terms  
This glossary covers basic operational and financial terms used  
in th e IMF Financial Data Query Tool  
 
A 
Adjusted Rate of Remuneration  
Rate used to pay interest (remuneration) to members on their remunerated reserve tranche 
position with the IMF.  
 
Adjusted Rate of Charge  
Rate applied to charge members on their outstanding credit to the IMF.  
 
Agreed Amount  
The Agreed Amount represents the maximum amount available for drawing under an 
arrangement approved by the IMF ’s Executive Board.  
 
Average SDR Interest Rate  
Average of the weekly rates calculated at the end of each financial quarter for that quarter.  
 
B 
 
Basic Rate of Charge  
The basic rate of charge is equal to the SDR interest rate plus a margin.  
 
Basic Rate of Remuneration  
The basic (unadjusted) rate of remuneration is equal to the SDR interest rate.  
 
Bilateral Borrowing Agreements  
Bilateral Agreements are lending agreements between the IMF and a member country, or an 
agency of the member country, to supplement IMF lending resources.  
 
Buffer Stock Facility  
The Buffer Stock Financing Facility (BSF), established in 1969 and eliminated in 2000, provided 
financing to members with a balance of payments need to help finance their contributions to 
approved commodity price stabilization funds.  

 Burden Sharing  
A policy in place since 1986 regarding the sharing, between members paying charges and 
members receiving rem uneration, of the financial consequences to the IMF of overdue 
obligations. An amount equal to overdue charges (excluding special charges) and an allocation 
to the Special Contingent Account are generated each quarter by an upward adjustment of the 
rate of charge and a downward adjustment of the rate of remuneration.  
 
C 
 
Compensatory Financing Facility  (CFF)  
The Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) was a special IMF financing facility established in 
1963. Until its elimination in 2009, the CFF provided resources to members who encountered 
balance of payments difficulties, arising out of export shortfalls or excess costs of cereal imports 
that were temporary and resulted from events that were largely beyond the members’ control.  
 
Concessional Assistance  
The IMF initiated Concessional Assistance in 1976 through the establishment of the Trust Fund 
financed from the sale of part of the IMF gold holdings. In 1986, the IMF established the 
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) to provide concessional assistance to low -income countries 
by recycling resources len t under the Trust Fund. In 1987, the SAF was enlarged to include 
resources from bilateral contributors and renamed Enlarged SAF (ESAF). In 1999, the ESAF Trust 
was renamed the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility Trust (PRGF Trust). In 2006, the 
Exogenous  Shocks Facility (ESF) was added as another facility to provide assistance to low -
income members facing sudden and exogenous shocks but do not have a PRGF arrangement. 
The PRGF Trust was renamed PRGF -ESF Trust and provided assistance through two facilities : 
the PRGF and the ESF. In 2008, the ESF was modified into two components to address 
worsening of global conditions: the Rapid Access Component (RAC) which provides emergency 
assistance in a single disbursement and a High Access Component (HAC) provided in  multiple 
disbursements subject to reviews when more resources are needed. In 2010, the PRG Trust 
replaced the PRGF -ESF Trust and assistance is now provided through three facilities: the 
Extended Credit Facility (ECF), the Standby Credit Facility (SCF), an d the Rapid Credit Facility 
(RCF).  Concessional loans are provided at a subsidized interest rate.  
 
Cumulative Quarterly Burden Sharing Adjustments  
Refundable resources collected on a quarterly basis under the Burden Sharing mechanism 
which is used by the IMF to compensate for income lost due to unpaid charges and to build up 
precautionary balances through contributions to the Special Contingent Accou nt (SCA). See 
Burden Sharing . 
 CVA Account  
The Currency Valuation Adjustment (CVA) Account records the amount payable to the IMF or 
payable by the IMF depending on whether the member’ s currency has depreciated or 
appreciated vis -á-vis the SDR since the last revaluation of the  balances in the IMF No. 1, 
IMF No. 2, and IMF Securities Accounts.  
 
D 
 
Deferred Charges Adjustments (Charges)  
Refundable resources collected on a quarterly basis from members with credit outstanding by 
adding an upward adjustment to the rate of charge. The purpose of these resources is to cover 
unpaid charges of members in arrears. Once members in arrears settle t heir charges, these 
resources are refunded to contributors. See Burden Sharing . 
 
Deferred Char ges Adjustments (Remuneration)  
Refundable resources collected on a quarterly basis from members receiving remuneration by 
adding a downward adjustment to the rate of remuneration. The purpose of these resources is 
to cover unpaid charges of members in arrears. Once members in arrears se ttle their charges, 
these resources are refunded to contributors. See Burden Sharing .  
 
Drawn Amount  
The Drawn Amount represents the cumulative amounts disbursed under an arrangement.  
 
E 
 
Emergency Natural Disaster Assistance (ENDA)  
Emergency financial assistance to countries with urgent balance of payments financing needs in 
the wake of natural disasters. Emergency financial assistance was disbursed rapidly and without 
the need for program -based conditionality. ENDA is subsidized for  low-income countries and 
loans are repayable in 8 quarterly installments 3 1/4 - 5 years after disbursement. In 2010, 
ENDA was superseded by t he Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) for low -income members, and in 
2012 —by the Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) for al l member countries.  
 
Emergency Post Conflict Assistance (EPCA)  
Emergency financial assistance to countries with urgent balance of payments financing needs in 
the wake of armed conflicts. Emergency financial assistance was disbursed rapidly and without 
the need for program -based conditionality. EPCA is subsidized for l ow-income countries and 
loans are repayable in 8 quarterly installments 3 1/4 - 5 years after disbursement. In 2010, EPCA 
 was superseded by t he Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) for low -income members, and in 2012 —by 
the Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) for all member countries.  
 
Enlarged Access Policy (EA)  
The Enlarged Access Policy (EA) was established as a temporary policy in 1980 as a successor to 
the Supplementary Financing Facility (SFF) and expired in 1992. The policy enabled the IMF to 
provide balance of payments assistance to members facing external payment imbalances that 
were large relative to their quota positions. The policy allowed the IMF to provide resources 
under stand -by or extended arrangements in amounts larger that would be available under 
other policies on the use of general resources and  for a period longer than under the IMF’s 
regular tranche policies.  
 
Exogenous Shocks Facility - High Access Component (ESF -HAC)  
Concessional financing under the High Access Component of the ESF (ESF -HAC)(2008 -2010) to 
low-income member countries facing balance of payments needs caused by sudden and 
exogenous shocks. Loans are repayable with a grace period of 5½ years and a final ma turity of 
10 years. In 2010 the ESF -HAC was superseded by the Standby Credit Facility (SCF).  
 
Exogenous Shocks Facility - Rapid Access Component (ESF -RAC)  
Quick concessional assistance under the Rapid Access Component of the ESF (2008 -10) in the 
form of an outright disbursements to low -income member countries facing balance of payments 
needs caused by exogenous shocks. Loans are repayable with a grace period  of 5½ years and a 
final maturity of 10 years. In 2010, the ESF -RAC was superseded by the Rapid Credit Facility (RCF).  
 
Extended Credit Facility (ECF)  
The Extended Credit Facility (ECF), established in 2010 and formerly known as the Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), provides concessional financial assistance in support of a 
three -year macroeconomic and structural adjustment program to eligibl e low -income members 
facing protracted balance of payment issues. The loans are repayable in 10 equal semiannual 
installments 5½ - 10 years after disbursement.  
 
Extended Fund Facility (EFF)  
The Extended Fund Facility (EFF) provides long -term assistance to support members’ structural 
reforms to address balance of payments difficulties of a long -term character. Drawings under 
extended arrangements are repayable in 12 semiannual installments 4½ - 10 years after 
disbursement.  
 
 
 F 
 
FCL Principal  
Principal repayments (repurchase) of Flexible Credit Line (FCL) loans.  
 
First Credit Tranche  
Member countries may make use of IMF credit to address balance of payment problems under 
Credit Tranche Policies or special policies called facilities. Under the Credit Tranche Policies, the 
IMF makes credit available in four tranches (segments), each equa l to 25 percent of a member’s 
quota. The First Credit Tranche represents use of IMF resources up to the limit of the first 
tranche on fairly liberal terms. Requests for use of IMF resources beyond the first credit tranche 
(in the upper credit tranches) req uire substantial justification for the expectation that the 
member’s balance of payments difficulties will be resolved within a reasonable period of time.  
 
Flexible Credit Line (FCL)  
The Flexible Credit Line (FCL) has been established to allow members with very strong track 
records to access IMF resources based on pre -set qualification criteria to deal with all types of 
balance of payments problems. The FCL could be used both on a prec autionary (crisis 
prevention) and nonprecautionary (crisis resolution) basis. Members may request either a one -
year arrangement with no interim reviews, or a two -year arrangement with an interim review 
of qualification required after twelve months. Purchas es under FCL arrangements are repayable 
in 8 quarterly installments 3¼ - 5 years after disbursement.  
 
G 
 
GRA Arrangements  
The General Resources Account (GRA) Arrangements comprise a variety of lending programs 
with different disbursement schedules and maturities depending on the balance of payment 
needs of the member.  
 
GRA Charges  
The General Resources Account (GRA) charges are payable by a member on its GRA outstanding 
credit. Charges accrue daily on the outstanding balance and are payable on a quarterly basis.  
 
GRA Credit Outstanding  
The General Resources Account (GRA) Credit Outstanding represents total GRA loans disbursed 
to members less repayments.  
 
 GRA Purchases  
GRA Purchases are loans (purchases) disbursed to members under facilities of the IMF General 
Resources Account (GRA).  
 
GRA Repurchases  
GRA Repurchases are principal repayments (repurchase s) by members.  
 
GRA Special Charges  
GRA Special Charges are charges in addition to the basic rate of charge levied on financial 
obligations, including overdue principal (repurchases) and charges that are past due.  
 
H 
 
HIPC Assistance  
The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Assistance represents resources provided eligible 
member countries to help meet their debt service payments to the IMF. Disbursements are 
normally dependent on receipt of sufficient financing assurances from other creditors.  
 
I 
 
IMF No. 1 Account  
The IMF No. 1 Account represents part of the IMF currency holdings held in member ’s 
designated depository agency which is used for the IMF ’s operations, including, inter alia, quota 
subscription payments, purchases, and repurchases. The No. 1 Account is a cash account. 
Members are required to maintain a minimum in No. 1 Account equal to 1/4 of 1 percent of the 
member ’s quota at all times.  
 
IMF No. 2 Account  
The IMF No. 2 Account represents part of the IMF currency holdings held in member ’s 
designated depository agency and it is used for the payment of administrative expenses 
incurred by the IMF in the member ’s currency, e.g., expenses of the IMF representative offices.  
 
IMF Securities Account  
The IMF Securities Account represents part of the IMF c urrency holdings held in member’ s 
designated depository agency which contain member’s nonnegotiable, non -interest bearing 
notes encashable on demand.  
 
 
 IMF’s Holdings of Currencies  
IMF’s Holdings of Currencies represent members ’ paid -in quota subscription in local currencies 
that are held in designated depository agencies (e.g. , central banks).  Currency holdings are 
held in three accounts: IMF No. 1, IMF No. 2, and IMF Securities Accounts.  
 
N 
 
Net SDR Charges  
The SDR Department pays interest on holdings of SDRs and levies charges on the cumulative 
allocation of SDRs to participants (all IMF members are participants) at the same interest rate. 
Participants whose holdings are below their cumulative holdings incur  net charges, i.e., the 
charges net of the interest. Both SDR interest and charges accrue daily and are settled 
quarterly.  
 
New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB)  
The New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) is a standing set of credit arrangements under which 
the participants (member countries and institutions) commit to provide supplementary 
resources to the IMF when these are needed to forestall or cope with an impairmen t of the 
international monetary system. The NAB is the facility of first and principal recourse in 
circumstances in which the IMF needs to supplement its quota resources.  
 
Notes Purchase Agreements (NPA)  
To supplement its capacity to provide finance assistance to its members, the IMF issues 
promissory notes to the official sector under the Notes Purchase Agreements (NPA). The NPA 
includes a limit on the total amount that can be purchased during the term of  the NPA. Notes 
are issued at the time of a loan disb ursement to a borrowing member.  
 
O 
 
Oil Facility  
Two Oil Facilities were established in response to the oil price shock in the 1970s. The first Oil 
Facility was created in June 1974 and lapsed in December 1974. The second Oil Facility was 
created in April 1975 to provide additional financing, and lapsed in March 1976. Both facilities 
aimed at providing supplementary financing to member countries facing balance of payments 
problems and were adversely affected by higher oil prices. Loans under the Oil facilities were 
repayable in 16 quarterly installments 3 –7 years after disbursement.  
 
 
 Original Arrangement Date  
Original Arrangement Date is the date when the IMF ’s Executive Board approves the 
arrangement.  
 
Original Disbursement Date  
Original Disbursement Date is the date when the funds were disbursed to the member.  
 
Overdue Interest  
Overdue Interest on PRGT loans.  
 
P 
 
Precautionary and Liquidity Line (PLL)  
Established to meet actual or potential balance of payments needs of members with sound 
economic fundamentals and institutional policy frameworks but with some remaining 
vulnerabilities that preclude them from using the FCL. Access under a PLL arrangement varies 
depending on the duration of the arrangement, ranging from six months to two years, and 
member -specific needs. Under a six -month arrangement, access could be up to 250 percent of a 
member’s quota, with a possibility to be augmented to a maximum of 5 00 percent in exceptional 
circumstances. For one to two year arrangements, the maximum access is equal to 500 percent of 
a member’s quota for the first year and up to 1000 percent of quota for the second year.  
Purchases under  the Precautionary and Liquidity Line a re repayable in 8 quarterly installments 3 
1/4 - 5 years after disbursement.  
 
Prescribed Holder  
A nonparticipant in the SDR Department that has been prescribed by the IMF as a holder of SDRs, 
including nonmembers, member countries that are not SDR Department participants, institutions 
that perform the functions of a central bank for more than one mem ber, and other official 
entities.  
 
PRG Trust  
The Poverty Reduction Growth Trust (PRGT) had been originally established as the ESAF Trust in 
1987 to provide concessional assistance to low -income members and was subsequently enlarged 
and renamed. PRGT was previously known as ESAF (1987 -1999), PRGF (199 9-2006), PRGF -ESF 
(2006 -2010) Trusts. The PRGT provides financial assistance under  three facilities: the Extended 
Credit Facility (ECF) to address protracted balance of payments (BOP) needs, the Standby Credit 
Facility (SCF) to address short -term and precautionary BOP needs, and the Rapid Credit Facility 
(RCF) to provide rapid low  access with limited conditionality to meet urgent BOP needs.  
  
PRGT Arrangements  
The Poverty Reduction Growth Trust (PRGT) Arrangements represent lending programs 
providing concessional financing support to low -income countries.  
 
PRGT Credit Outstanding  
The Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT) Credit Outstanding represents total PRGT 
resources disbursed, including outstanding Trust Fund and Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) 
loans, less repayments.  
 
PRGT Disbursements  
PRGT Disbursements are concessional loans disbursed to members under the Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT).  
 
PRGT Interest  
The PRGT Interest is payable quarter ly by a member on its outstanding concessional loans . A 
tiered interest rate structure differentiates financing terms across groups of countries (Tier 1, 
Tier 2B, and Tier 2A) with lower income members benefiting from more concessional terms.  
 
PRGT Repayments  
Principal repayments of concessional loans disbursed by the Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Trust (PRGT).  
 
Q 
 
Quota  
Each member of the IMF is assigned a quota, denominated in SDRs, that is based broadly on the 
country ’s economic position relative to other members. The size of a country ’s quota takes into  
account its GDP, current account transactions, and official reserves. Quotas determine 
members ’ capital subscriptions to the IMF, voting power, and the amount of financial 
assistance available to them from the IMF. Quotas are normally reviewed, and possibly 
adjusted, every five years.  
 
R 
 
Rapid Credit Facility (RCF)  
Established in 2010 to provide low access, rapid, and concessional financial assistance to low -
income member countries facing an urgent balance of payments need. It is provided as an 
 outright disbursement without explicit program -based conditionality or reviews. The RCF 
streamlines the IMF’s emergency assistance for low -income members and provides flexible 
support in a wide variety of circumstances, including shocks, natural disasters,  and emergencies 
resulting from fragility. RCF loans have a grace period of 5½ years and a maturity of 10 years.  
  
Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI)  
Established in 2012 to  provide rapid and low -access financial assistance to all member countries 
facing an urgent balance of payments need in the aftermath of commodity price shocks, natural 
disasters, post -conflict situations and emergencies resulting from fragility without th e need for 
a full -fledged program. The RFI has replaced the previous emergency assistance policy that 
covered Emergency Natural Disaster Assistance (ENDA) and Emergency Post -Conflict Assistance 
(EPCA). Financial assistance is provided  in the form of outright purchases and outstanding 
principal (purchases) are repaid within 3¼ to 5 years.  
 
Rate of Charge  
Rate applied to charge members on their  outstanding credit to the IMF.  
 
Rate of Charge Adjustment for Deferred Charges  
A refundable adjustment to the rate of charge that is made under the burden sharing 
mechanism.  
 
Rate  of Charge Adjustment for SCA -1 
A refundable adjustment to the rate of remuneration that was made under the burden sharing 
mechanism and allocated to the first Special Contingent Account (SCA -1). 
 
Rate of Remuneration  
Rate used to pay interest (remuneration) to members on their remunerated reserve tranche 
position with the IMF.  
 
Rate of Remuneration Adjustment for Deferred Charges  
A refundable adjustment to the rate of remuneration that is made under the burden sharing 
mechanism.  
 
Rate of Re muneration Adjustment for SCA -1 
A refundable adjustment to the rate of remuneration that was made under the burden sharing 
mechanism and allocated to the first Special Contingent Account (SCA -1). 
 
RCF Principal  
 Principal repayments (repurchase) of Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) loans.  
 
Reserve Tranche Position (RTP)  
The Reserve Tranche Positi on (RTP) is equal to the member’ s quota less the IMF ’s holdings of 
the member ’s currency in the GRA . It is part of the member’ s external reserves.  
 
RFI Principal  
Principal repayments (repurchase) of Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) loans.  
 
Resilience and Sustainability Trust (RST)  
The RST was established in 2022 to help low -income and vulnerable middle -income countries 
build resilience to external shocks and ensure sustainable growth, contributing to their longer -
term balance of payments stability. It complements the IMF’s existing lending toolkit by 
providing longer -term, affordable financing to address longer -term challenges, including 
climate change and pandemic preparedness.  
 
RSF Arrangement  
The Resilience and Sustainability Facility (RSF) Arrangement represents the lending program 
under which eligible members can access financing under the Resilience and Sustainability Trust 
(RST). A concurrent IMF -supported program with upper credit tranche quality policies (UCT 
program) is required.  
 
RST Credit Outstanding  
The Resilience and Sustainability Trust (RST) Credit Outstanding represents total RST loans 
disbursed  to members less repayments.   
 
RST Disbursements  
RST disbursements are long -term loans disbursed to members under the Resilience and 
Sustainability Trust (RST). RST loans under the Resilience and Sustainability Facility (RSF) have a 
20-year maturity and a 10½ -year grace period during which no principal is repaid.  
 
RST Interest  
Interest under the Resilience and Sustainability Facility (RSF) is payable quarterly by a member 
on its outstanding RSF loans.  A tiered interest structure differentiates financing terms across 
country groups, with low -income members benefiting from more concessional terms . 
 
RST Repayments  
 Principal repayments of long -term loans disbursed by the Resilience and Sustainability Trust 
(RST).  
 
S 
 
SAF Interest  
The SAF Interest is payable semiannually by a member on outstanding credit under the Structural 
Adjustment Facility (SAF), excluding additional interest levied on overdue SAF interest.  
 
SCA-1 Adjustmen ts (Charges)  
Refundable resources collected on a quarterly basis from members with credit outstanding by 
adding an upward adjustment to the rate of charge and allocated to the first Special Contingent 
Account (SCA -1). These resources build up precautionary balances to protect the IMF against 
potential losses from members’ ultimate failure to settle overdue repurchase obligations. SCA -1 
adjustments are refunded to the contributors when there are no outstanding overdue 
obligations, or at such earlier time as the IMF  may d ecide. See Burden Sharing .  
 
SCA-1 Adjustments (Remuneration)  
Refundable resources collected on a quarterly basis from members receiving remuneration by 
adding a downward adjustment to the rate of remuneration and allocated to the first Special 
Contingent Account (SCA -1). These resources build up precautionary balanc es to protect the IMF 
against potential losses from members’ ultimate failure to settle overdue repurchase obligations. 
SCA-1 adjustments are refunded to the contributors when there are no outstanding overdue 
obligations, or at such earlier time as the IMF  may decide. See Burden Sharing.   
 
Schedule Date   
The Schedule Date is the actual date when a member is scheduled to repay its obligation.   
 
SDR Allocations  
SDR Allocations are a distribution of SDRs to members by decision of the IMF. A general 
allocation requires a finding by the IMF that there is a global need for additional liquidity . 
Allocations of SDRs are made to participa nts in the SDR department (currently, all IMF members 
are participants)  in proportion to their quotas in the IMF.  
 
SDR Assessments  
SDR Assessments are levied on participants in the SDR Department annually to reimburse the 
IMF for expenses incurred in operating the SDR Department.  
 
 SDR Holdings  
The Special Drawing Right (SDR) is an interest -bearing reserve asset created by the IMF to 
supplement members’ reserve assets. It is a purely official asset and can only be held and used 
by members in the SDR department, the IMF, and certain designated official entities. SDR 
holdings can be exchanged with other members for freely usable currency.  
 
SDR Interest Rate  
The SDR Interest Rate is a weighted average of interest rates on short -term financial 
instruments in the markets of the currencies included in t he SDR valuation basket. The SDR 
Interest Rate is determined on a weekly basis and is subject to a 0.050 percent floor . It also 
serves as basis for calculating interest paid and charged to members.  
 
SFF Charges  
SFF Charges are charges under the Supplementary Financing Facility.  
 
Short -Term Liquidity Line (SLL)  
The Short -term Liquidity Line (SLL) has been established to allow members with very strong 
track records to access IMF resources based on pre -set qualification criteria to deal with 
potential moderate short -term balance of payment needs arising due to capi tal account 
pressures. Individual SLL arrangements will be approved for a period of 12 months with access 
capped at the normal annual access limit, and successor arrangements could be approved for as 
long as the member continues to qualify and have the spe cial BoP need. Purchases under SLL 
arrangements are expected to be repurchased in 1 bullet installment 12 months after the 
disbursement. As the SLL is a swap -like facility with revolving access, it enables repeated (partial 
or full) purchases and repurchas es within and across SLL arrangements. Repurchases would 
reconstitute the member ’s right to purchase up to the maximum access approved.  
 
Stand -By Arrangement (SBA)  
The Stand -By Arrangement (SBA) is the most common type of credit arrangement designed to 
provide short -term financial assistance. Purchases under Stand -By Arrangements are repayable 
in 8 quarterly installments 3 1/4 - 5 years aft er disbursement.  
 
Standby Credit Facility (SCF)  
Established in 2010 to provide concessional financial assistance to low -income countries that 
are experiencing short -term but not protracted balance of payments needs. SCF arrangements 
range from one to two years. Loans are repayable in 9 equal semiannual i nstallments 4 –8 years 
after disbursement.  
 
 Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)  
The Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) was created in 1986 to provide concessional financing 
to assist low -income countries in addressing balance of payments financing needs arising from 
structural weaknesses. The SAF was financed by reflows of Trust Fun d repayments, and its loans 
were extended on the same terms with a 5½ years grace period and repayable in 10 years and 
at the interest rate of ½ percent per annum.  
 
Supplemental Financing Facility (SFF)  
During 1979 -1981, the SFF  allowed countries with a Stand -By or Extended Arrangements to 
obtain supplementary and parallel credits financed by the borrowed resources . 
 
Supplemental Reserve Facility (SRF)  
During 1997 -2009, the SRF  provided financial assistance to member countries experiencing 
exceptional balance of payments difficulties due to a large short -term financing need related to 
a sudden and disruptive loss of market confidence. Financial resources under this facility were 
provided under an associated stand -by or extended arrangement and generally available in two 
or more drawings which were expected to be repaid by the member within 1 to 1 ½ years of the 
date of each purchase, subject to extension of up to one year.  
 
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF)  
During 1993 -1995, the STF provided temporary assistance to countries in transition from 
centrally planned to market economies facing balance of payments difficulties. Assistance was 
provided in small amounts with low conditionality.  
 
T 
 
TF Special Charges  
TF Special Charges are charges levied on overdue Trust Fund loans.  
 
Transaction Value Date  
The Transaction Value Date is the date of the financial transaction.  
 
Trust Fund  
The Trust Fund (1976 -1981) was set up to provide special balance of payments assistance on 
concessional terms to developing members. These loans offered a 5½ years grace period and 
were repayable in 10 years, at an interest rate of ½ percent per annum.  
 
Trust Fund Interest  
 The Trust Fund Interest is payable semiannually by a member on outstanding TF credit . 
 
 
U 
 
Undrawn Amount  
Amount undrawn represents an amount that currently remains to be drawn under the 
arrangement. For SLL arrangements, it is equal to the Agreed Amount less the balance of 
current credit outstanding under the current or any previous SLL arrangements. For all other 
arrangements, it is equal to the Agreed Amount less Drawn  Amount . 
 