Key IMF Financial Statistics  
1  
               Term  Definition  
Available Resources  
GRA 
Usable resources   Usable resources consist of: (i) the IMF’s holdings of the currencies of members 
considered by the Executive Board to have a sufficiently strong balance of payments 
and reserve position for their currencies to be used in the financing of IMF 
transactions ( see Financing IMF Transactions  ii) holdings of c.o.b. February 25, 
2016, the Board approved the deactivation of the NAB for financing new Fund commitments, and changed the ratio (from 3:1 to 1:1 of NAB to quota resources) for 
financing drawings under Fund commitments approved during pr ior NAB activation 
periods.  
Uncommitted usable resources   Usable resources less the full amount of undrawn balances under GRA lending 
commitments.  
Forward commitment capacity    A measure of the resources available for new financial commitments, equal to 
uncommitted usable resources plus repurchases one -year forward less 
repayments of borrowing due one -year forward and less the prudential balance.  
 
PRG Trust   Trust  administered by the IMF to conduct concessional lending operations 
through the Loan, Reserve and Subsidy Accounts.  
Total lending commitments   
Of which: Undrawn lending   Commitments available to borrowers not yet disbursed under PRGT arrangements  
amounts under Commitments      
Loans outstanding   Outstanding disbursements to borrowers under PRGT arrangements.  
Undrawn loan resources   Loan Account resources committed by lenders to the PRG Trus t but not yet 
drawn .  
Uncommitted loan resources    Available PRGT loan account resources less undrawn commitments made to 
eligible member countries.  
 
RS Trust   Trust administered by the IMF to offer longer -term financing to low -income and 
vulnerable middle -income countries seeking to build resilience to external 
shocks at affordable interest rates.  
Total lending commitments   
Of which: Undrawn lending   Commitments available to borrowers not yet disbursed under RST arrangements                                  
amounts under Commitments    
Loans outstanding   Outstanding disbursements  to borrowers  under  RS Trust  arrangements.  
Undrawn loan resources   Loan Account resources committed by lenders to the RS Trust  but not yet drawn  
Uncommitted  loan resources  Available  RS Trust  loan account resources  less undrawn commitments  made to eligible  
member  countries.  
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
2  
         Term  Definition  
Financial Assistance  
GRA   The General  Resources  Account  (GRA)  contains  IMF holdings  of members’  
currencies, SDRs, gold, and other assets. These holdings are principally derived 
from quota subscription payments plus any activated borrowings.  
Purchases   GRA  resources  disbursed to members  during the period  (outflows).  
Repurchases   GRA resources repaid by members during the period (inflows).  
Credit outstanding   Total GRA resources disbursed less repurchases.  
Outstanding Fund borrowings   Total GRA borrowings less repayments.  
 
PRG Trust   The PRG  Trust  (PRGT) provides  financial  support  to low-income  member  
countries  via concessional loan facilities.  
Disbursements   PRG  Trust  resources  disbursed to members  during  the period.  
Repayments    PRG  Trust  resources  (including  outstanding  Trust  Fund and Structural 
Adjustment Facility (SAF) loans) repaid by members during the period.  
Credit outstanding   Total PRG  Trust  resources  disbursed less repayments  (including  outstanding Trust  
Fund and Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) loans).  
 
RS Trust   The RS Trust  (RST) provides  financial  support  to low-income and vulnerable 
middle -income countries seeking longer -term financing to build resilience to 
external shocks at affordable interest rates.  
Disbursements   RS Trust  resources  disbursed to members  during the period.  
Repayments    RS Trust  resources  repaid by members during the period.  
Credit outstanding   Total RS Trust  resources  disbursed  less repayments.  
 
HIPC   Assistance  provided to eligible  countries  under  the Heavily  Indebted Poor  
Countries (HIPC) Initiative.  
Number  of countries   Number  of countries  for which  HIPC  assistance  has been  committed.  
 
Commitments    Cumulative  commitments  made  to HIPC -eligible  members  that have  reached  the 
decision point under the HIPC Initiative; includes amounts that the IMF has 
indicated will be committed subject to satisfactory assurances regarding exceptional 
assistance to be provided by other creditors under the HIPC Initiative.  
 
 
 
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
3  
  
       Term  Definition  
Disbursements    Cumulative  grants  to members  eligible  for financial assistance  under  the HIPC  
Initiative to be used to help meet debt service payments to the IMF.  
Of which:  
Interim assistance   Cumulative  grants  to members  between  their decision  and completion 
point.   
Completion point assistance    Final grants to members at their completion points.  
 
MDRI    The Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) provides 100% debt relief to eligible 
member  countries  that are qualified  for the assistance.  The debt relief  covers  the full 
stock of debt owed to the Fund as of end- 2004, and still outstanding at the time the 
country qualifies for such debt relief. Such MDRI debt relief operations have 
ceased, as the Executive Board approved the liquidation of the MDRI -I and MDRI -
II Trusts effe ctive February 4, 2015 and August 1, 2015, respectively.  
Number  of countries   Number  of countries  which  have  received  MDRI  debt relief.  
Total Debt  Relief  financed 
from:  
MDRI Trusts   MDRI  resources  (excluding HIPC  debt relief)  disbursed  to members  during  the 
period.  
HIPC Umbrella Account    HIPC resources used as debt relief under the MDRI during the period.  
 
CCR    The Catastrophe Containment and Relief (CCR) Trust provides debt relief to 
eligible member countries facing exceptional balance of payments needs arising 
from :  
  (i) a qualifying  catastrophic  natural  disaster  under  the Post-Catastrophe  Relief  
(PCR)  Window (as  previously provided under  the former Post-Catastrophe  Debt  
Relief  (PCDR)  Trust) or 
(ii) a qualifying  public  health  disaster  under  the Catastrophe  Containment  (CC)  
Window. The CCR Trust replaced the PCDR Trust on February 4, 2015.  
Number  of countries   Number  of countries  which  have  received  CCR Trust  debt relief.  
Total Debt Relief    CCR Trust  resources  (excluding HIPC  debt relief)  disbursed  to members  
during the period.  
Arrears  
GRA   Total overdue  GRA  financial  obligations.  
PRG  Trust   Total overdue  PRGT  financial  obligations.  
RS Trust   Total overdue RST financial obligations.  
 
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
4  
  
Trust Fund and other    Total overdue  financial  obligations  to the Trust  Fund and Structural Adjustment  
Facility (SAF).  Although the  Trust Fund and SAF are no longer operational, 
arrears to the  Trust Fund and SAF consist of overdue repayments, interest, or 
charges on loans provided under these facilities.  
Rates  
US$ per SDR    Exchange  rate for the SDR  in terms  of U.S. dollars.  The latest currency  
composition and weights for the SDR are available at 
https://www.imf.org/external/np/fin/data/rms_sdrv.aspx   
SDR interest rate    Interest rate calculated as the (combined market) weighted average of the three 
month market interest rates on Chinese Renminbi, euro, Japanese yen, pound 
sterling, and U.S. dollar  assets.  On October  24, 2014,  the Executive  Board  of the 
IMF amended  the rule for setting the SDR interest rate to be the higher of (i) the 
above combined market interest  rate or (ii) 0.050  percent,  the result  of which  is 
rounded to three  (instead  of two) decimal places. (See: 
https://www.imf.org/external/np/fin/data/sdr_ir.aspx ) 
Rate of Charge, adjusted    The basic  rate of charge  on GRA  loans  is equal  to the SDR  interest rate plus 60 
basis points to cover the IMF's cost of financing, additions to reserves, and 
administrative expenses; and further adjusted by a small margin to compensate 
for income forgone because of charges in arrears.  
Rate of remuneration, adjusted   Interest rate paid to members that provide resources to the IMF. Adjusted by a 
small margin  to allow  for special  additions  to reserves  and to compensate  for 
income  forgone because of charges in arrears.  
Investments  
Amount    PRG and PRG -HIPC Trust resources invested in short --term deposits and medium -
term instruments with the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and bond 
portfolios managed by external investment managers. Data from the first quarter of 
2000 onward also include  sight  deposits.  The SDA  contains  the profits  (sales  
proceeds  minus  the value of the gold at the acquisition cost) from sales of the IMF's 
gold holdings.  
Average yield (percent)    Weighted  average yield  on time deposits,  two days'  notice  accounts,  demand  
deposit accounts, and fixed income securities.  
Average maturity (months)    Weighted  average of remaining  maturity  of resources  placed  in time deposits  
and the modified duration of fixed income securities.  
 
  
 
 
 
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
5  
  
          Forward Commitment Capacity   
       Term  Definition  
Usable  Resources  
Fund quota resources   The IMF holdings of SDRs and IMF’s holdings of the currencies of members 
considered by the Executive Board to have a sufficiently strong balance of 
payments and reserve position  for their currencies  to be used in the financing of IMF 
transactions  (see Financial Transactions: http://www.imf.org/cgi- shl/create_x.pl?ftp)  
Fund borrowed resources    Unused amounts, if any, under credit lines, such as under the New 
Arrangements to Borrow  for financing drawings  under  Fund  commitments  
approved during prior  NAB activation periods.  
Repurchases one -year forward    Repayments  by member  countries  during the coming one-year period.  These  
repurchases add to the supply of the IMF’s usable resources.  
Repayments  of borrowings 
one-year forward  Repayment  obligations  on Fund borrowing  and note placements  in the coming  one-
year period,  including  drawings  and notes  reaching  final maturity  in the  next 12 
months  plus any encashment requests for early repayment to be met over that same 
period.  
Prudential balance   Amount set aside to safeguard the liquidity of members’ claims and take account of 
the potential erosion of the IMF’s  resource base.  The prudential  balance is set at 20 
percent  of the quotas of members participating in the financing of IMF transactions 
(Financial Transactions Plan) and any amounts made available under active bilateral borrowing and note purchase agreements with non- NAB participants, which were 
terminated on April 1, 2013. The prudential balance currently does not cover the 
encashment needs of NAB participants’ outstanding claims under bilateral 
borrowing agreements that are folded into the NAB. Nor does it extend to the claims 
of participants in the expanded NAB; as such resources are to be provided by setting 
aside a portion of the total credit arrangements under the NAB. The prudential ratio of 20 percent as decided by the IMF’s Executive Board reflects  historical experience  
and judgments  on the indicative  level  of uncommitted usable resources that the IMF 
would normally not use to make financial commitments.  
The prudential  balance  does not represent  a rigid  minimum  and IMF resources  could,  on a 
strictly temporary basis, fall below this level.  
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
6  
  
                                            Current Financial Arrangements (GRA, PRGT, RST)  
       Term  Definition  
Arrangements   IMF credit  is made available  under  a variety  of borrowing arrangements  with different  
disbursement  schedules  and maturities  depending on the balance of payment  needs  of the 
member.  
GRA 
Stand -By Arrangements    The most  common type of credit  arrangement  designed to provide  short -term 
financial assistance. Purchases under Stand -By Arrangements are repayable in 8 
quarterly installments 3¼ -  5 years after disbursement.  
Extended Arrangements    Extended Arrangements provide credit for a longer period since these 
arrangements usually require  fundamental  reforms  which  may need  more  time to 
put in place and take effect. Drawings under extended arrangements are repayable 
in 12 semiannual installments 4½ -  10 years after disbursement.  
Flexible Credit Line    The Flexible Credit Line (FCL) has been established to allow members with very 
strong track records to access IMF resources based on pre -set qualification criteria 
to deal with all types of balance of payments problems. The FCL could be used both 
on a precautionary (crisis  prevention)  and non-precautionary  (crisis  resolution)  basis.  
Purchases under FCL arrangements are repayable in 8 quarterly installments 3¼ -  5 
years after disbursement.  
Precautionary  and Liquidity Line The Precautionary and Liquidity Line (PLL), which replaces the Precautionary 
Credit Line  (PCL),  has been established to meet  actual  or potential balance of 
payments  needs  of members  with sound economic  fundamentals  and institutional 
policy  frameworks  but with some remaining vulnerabilities that preclude them from 
using the FCL. Purchases under PLL arrangements are repayable  in 8 quarterly 
installments 3¼ -  5 years after disbursement.  
PRG  Trust  
ECF Arrangements   Concessional  arrangements  providing credit  in support  of a three -year macroeconomic 
and structural adjustment program to eligible low -income members facing protracted 
balance of payment issues (formerly known as PRGF). The loans are repayable in 10 
equal semiannual installments 5½ -  10 years after disbursement.  
SCF Arrangements   Concessional  arrangements  ranging from  one to two years  to provide  financial  
assistance to low -income countries that are experiencing short -term but not 
protracted balance of payments needs. The loans are repayable in 9 equal 
semiannual installments 4 -  8 years after disbursement.  
Interest  on all PRGT  loans  (including  outright  drawings  under  the RCF)  has been  waived 
through end- December 2018.  
RS Trust  
Resilience and Sustainability       The RSF is designed to help members tackle longer -term challenges like climate change 
and Facility Arrangement       pandemic preparedness. The arrangement should be accompanied by an upper credit  
tranche program under the GRA and/or PRGT. Loans under the RSF are repayable in 20 
equal semiannual installments 101/2 – 20 years after disbursement.  
Key IMF Financial Statistics  
7  
                                         
                                                  Current Financial Arrangements (GRA, PRGT, RST)  
       Term  Definition  
Arrangement  Details    IMF financial  arrangements  are reviewed  regularly  to assess  progress  in policy  reforms.  
The disbursement  of funds  under  an arrangement  is linked  to the achievement  of certain 
financial targets.  
Next Scheduled Review   Expected  date the arrangement  will be reviewed  by the Executive  Board. 
Date of Approval    Date the arrangement was approved by the Executive Board.  
Date of Expiration   Arrangements  have  a specified  duration.  Commitments  are no longer  available  after the 
expiration  of the arrangement.  
Amount  Agreed   Amount  of credit  available  under  an arrangemen t 
Undrawn  Balance  Amount  of credit  available  under  an arrangement  but not yet drawn.  
Total Credit Outstanding   Total unpaid and outstanding principal due to the IMF under existing and expired 
arrangements  
Total Credit Outstanding as                  Total credit outstanding in terms of member's quota.                                                  
percent of quota  
Drawings available one -year   Credit available to a member under an arrangement (including expected augmentation of 
forward     PRGT and RST arrangements) one -year forward.  
Scheduled Repurchases and   The amount of funds scheduled to be repaid by the member one -year forward.  
Repayments one -year forward  
                  
                                                        Status of Commitments of HIPC Assistance  
       Term  Definition  
Decision Point   Point  at which  the IMF decides  whether  a member  qualifies  for assistance  under  the 
HIPC Initiative  (normally  at the end of the initial three -year performance  period)  and 
decides  on the amount of assistance to be committed.  
Completion Point   Point  at which the country receives the bulk of its assistance under the HIPC 
Initiative, without any further policy conditions. Under the enhanced HIPC  
Initiative, the timing of the  completion  point  is linked  to the implementation  of pre-
agreed  key structural reforms (i.e., floating completion point).  
Amount Committed    Amount  of HIPC  assistance  determined,  in consultation  with the World  Bank,  
at the decision point to be made available by the IMF.  
Amount  Disbursed   Resources  disbursed to the member  to help meet  debt service payments  to the IMF.  
Disbursements  are normally  dependent  on receipt  of sufficient financing assurances  
from other creditors.  
 
                                                 Status of Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative Assistance  
       Term  Definition  
Debt Relief Delivery Date   The effective date of delivery of MDRI assistance to qualified members.  
 Eligible Debt  
GRA           Assistance that covers credit outstanding under the GRA.  
PRGT         Assistance that covers credit outstanding under the PRG Trust.  
RST          Assistance that covers credit outstanding under the RS Trust . 
 